---
title: Speech for Interested Coders
---


I have been where you are, I know what your thinking, seriously.  I know that you are almost paralized to make a change out of what you think is comfortable to you.  Attending Code School would be a huge decision, as well as a huge life change.  I was worried about making a change this big, a change that would affect not just myself but my family as well.  We turned our family upside down to get me to leave my job and persue a career in a direction that I chose for the first time in my life.  I was afraid I wasnt smart enough, I was worried I couldnt do it.  

I was eased into this process with a small course-load of at home prep work for me to complete in the month before school.  When I first looked at the courseload of the prepwork I was relieved, it looked like a couple of straightforward worksheets that would require me to read a book, follow a tutorial or two, and find out answers to some basic Ruby questions, no problem.  I did them slowly, I guess because I had the time, but I think it helped it all sink in.  Then came a fist full of 'coding challenges'.  I honestly didnt see it coming.  From the very first challenge, I was hooked.  When I am working on these problems, or trying to learn another debth to what we are working on or programming in general, I felt like I'm was using a part of my brain that hadnt been used in a very long time.  

I worked for the County for the past decade.  From when I was 24 until I was 35 I was 'Officer Meier' and working in the booking department in the county jail.  Most people know very little about what a county jail is yet alone what goes on there, probobly for the best.  Over a third of my life was spent pulling drunks and crack heads out of cop cars and booking them into jail. So I started at the Jail when I was 24.  Obviously I had a limited set of priorities.  I liked my job and I was good at it.  Being young, I loved the excitement, the uses of force, the different environment from pretty much any other job.  But I grew up, started a family, and had to reevaluate my priorites.  Along with that I had to be realistic with myself and my abilities, and what I could see myself doing as my future.

I love the mental aspect of coding.  I love mapping out the methods I use to reach the goal I set out for.  Its great knowing that even if problems pop up, its not the end of the road, they are just bumps in it.  When Im wrapped up in a coding problem, it consumes me. These problems, and all the problems that come up while I work on them, stay with me, in a good way, and I keep thinking about them until I can move forward on them.  The small breakthroughs are a huge relief and the big breakthroughs are an amazing feeling of accomplishment.  Our recent coding challenge involved taking a bunch of words like 'apple peach plum' without spaces, like 'applepeachplum', and puting the spaces between them.  Sounds way easier than it is.  This was my first approach at mapping out a solution for the problem, it went pretty well.  

I went two ways on this one, I spent almost two days working towards solving this problem one way, only to find out practically that it couldnt be done that way, only to solve it in half the time, in an easier way.  I learned so much making this little program that puts the spaces between the words, and it felt so great to see that line return the desired response.  I love what I am doing every day.  Today was a snow day and I was honestly upset about NOT being able to go to school.  